>> Erik Reinert: Now, what we want to
do is we want to update our pipeline so
that it also takes care of the push step.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
going to simply add a new step.
What's neat about GitHub Actions,
at least is you don't have to provide
the environment variables to
the entire job if you don't want to.
For example, if you're just like,
I just want this one command
to have access to the cli,
you could totally do that.
That's absolutely fine.
That's exactly what we're doing.
In this case, what we're doing is
we're basically just saying, hey, for
this specific run command or this specific
step, add the environment variables to it.
Again, you guys can
copy this from my repo.
So I'm just going to go ahead and
add it to my repo.
Then I'm going to commit this and
push it up.
So I'm gonna do this, paste this in.
So I'm noticing somebody in chat is
also saying a nice alternative is to use
OpenID Connect with your GitHub flows
to authenticate with Amazon services.
Yeah, I fully agree.
I actually do use that normally, but
that's like an optimization on this.
But the idea is that you can basically
tell your Amazon account that
GitHub can connect to your services
as a unit or as an entity, right?
And then you don't need to
really give it credentials,
it just identifies the pipelines
that you're running and
then will give you those credentials for
it.
So it's kind of like Amazon
identifies your repos and
then recognizes when a repo goes to
push something or build something, and
then it goes, okay, well,
I know that you're doing this.
Here's a key for you.
So it's the inverse.
Instead of you creating keys and
then putting them in there as secrets,
you can kind of get them on the fly
when you're running the pipelines.
Really quick shout out.
We have a article on our
blog about this too.
So if you're curious about this,
if you go to altf4blog and
then click on using iam
the secure way in GitHub actions,
this will show you entirely
how to set that up.
This means that you don't have to
create credentials and all that stuff.
You can just generate them on
the fly in the actual pipeline.
Cool, so again, for now we've got this and
I'm going to go ahead and
push this code up.
Now, when I push this code up,
I should expect to see two things happen.
The first thing I should expect to see
happen is I should expect to see that
build step.
Then the second thing I should see
is I should see it actually push
that image to Amazon ECR and we should
be able to confirm that that happened.
Let's go ahead and
let this build and push.
>> Student: Ubuntu already
has Docker nowadays.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, well,
the GitHub Runner images do, yeah.
So the GitHub Runner images, you might be
like, why aren't you installing Docker or
any of the tools that you're running?
So, as I said before,
if you make your tools portable,
you don't have to worry about that.
How did we make our tools portable?
We made Docker the primary tool because
the runners have Docker on them at least.
I don't really need to install anything
else because I'm running Docker to do
everything and everything I need to do.
So that's a little bit of a quick tip for
anyone who ends up making pipelines in
the future, or you're trying to
figure out how to avoid installing so
many things in the beginning
of your pipeline.
Make a container image out of it,
push that container image up, and
then use that as your runtime with Docker.
And like I said, we do that where I work,
and it works really well.
Okay, cool.
So our build is just about done.
Let's see if we get a push.
>> Student: Does this cost money?
>> Erik Reinert: Does GitHub Actions
cost money?
They have free.
Whoops.
Okay, so what happened?
Tag does not exist.
I need to make a small
change to the Docker file.
This was expecting it to
be in a different state.
I see.
So it did run.
What's actually kind of nice is
you can see here in the output,
we did actually get our credentials and
log in.
And then when we went to push it,
you'll see that it says refers to tag.
Tag does not exist.
The reason for
that is because if we go to our makefile,
you'll notice that we build with
the git Shaw build image, riht.
But then down here, we push with
the build tag, which is latest.
That means that underneath the hood,
if I do Docker image ls see how now I have
a tag with like a really long value here.
That's the git commit.
This is a standard thing that I
do at my company that I think is
really worth doing,
which is every time you build a Docker
image in CI,
use the commit of that image as the tag.
The reason for that is because one,
it should always only build the same
tag once because it's cached like that.
But also it means that your devs, everyone
in your company, all of your automation,
everything uses the SHA as
the version of that image, right?
So if that's the version,
then if you want to promote something,
you would just say, okay, I want to
tag off of that version to this tag.
And so what we're doing underneath
the hood, when we're promoting something,
we're really just saying, okay,
this shawl should now be latest.
So we're gonna tag off of this SHA to
latest and then we're gonna push that.
That's really our promotion process.
So there was a small change
that I needed to make.
It's right here.
If you run into this problem,
just be aware of it.
Build image, push.
In the first stage,
because we were using latest,
it expected latest,
we want this to push the sha.
So the idea is we're only pushing shaws
and then we're pulling down shaws and
then tagging and
then pushing up the tag, right?
So that was the one thing
that needed to be changed.